Update info on rendering of C# data types to OpenAPI in .NET 10 (#35222)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/fundamentals/openapi/include-metadata.md

The `type` and `format` can also be set with a [Schema Transformer](xref:fundamentals/openapi/customize-openapi#use-schema-transformers). For example, you may want the `format` of decimal types to be `decimal` instead of `double`.

:::moniker-end

:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-10.0"

#### Numeric types

The JSON Schema library maps standard C# numeric types to OpenAPI `type` and `format` based on the
<xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.NumberHandling> property of the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions>
used in the app. In ASP.NET Core Web API apps, the default value of this property is `JsonNumberHandling.AllowReadingFromString`.

When the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.NumberHandling> property is set to `JsonNumberHandling.AllowReadingFromString`, the numeric types are mapped as follows:

> | C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               |  <!--                                -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               | 
```

> | C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               |
> | -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               |  <!--                                -->
| -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ |  <!--                                -->
```

> | int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` | <!-- pattern: "^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)$" -->

Reviewer: Close #35223 if you don't think this is necessary

| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` | <!-- pattern: "^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?$" -->

If the app is configured to produce OpenAPI 3.0 or OpenAPI v2 documents, where the `type` field cannot have an array value, the `type` field is dropped.

When the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.NumberHandling> property is set to `JsonNumberHandling.Strict`, the numeric types are mapped as follows:

| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type` | OpenAPI `format` |
| -------------- | -------------- | ---------------- |
| int            | integer        | int32            |
| long           | integer        | int64            |
| short          | integer        | int16            |
| byte           | integer        | uint8            |
| float          | number         | float            |
| double         | number         | double           |
| decimal        | number         | double           |

#### String types

> The following C# types map to `string` type properties in the generated OpenAPI document as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table shows how C# types map to `string` type properties in the generated OpenAPI document:
```

| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type` | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               |
| -------------- | -------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ |
| string         | string         |                  | |
| char           | string         | char             | minLength: 1, maxLength: 1 |
| byte[]         | string         | byte             | |
| DateTimeOffset | string         | date-time        | |
| DateOnly       | string         | date             | |
| TimeOnly       | string         | time             | |
| Uri            | string         | uri              | |
| Guid           | string         | uuid             | |

#### Other types

> Here's how other C# types are represented in the generated OpenAPI document:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other C# types are represented in the generated OpenAPI document as shown in the following table:
```

| short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |
| byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |
| float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |

<!--
| int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` |  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)$"`
| long           | [integer,string] | int64            | pattern `<digits>` |                                 
| short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
| byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
| float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |   pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?(?:[eE][+-]?\\d+)?$"`
| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |                                  

> | decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |   pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?$"`

Reviewer: Took me awhile to figure that build error. See the `|` in the pattern? Even commented out, the parser picks up the column separator before stripping comment - error
even with ``` back ticks, same column error. Very strange

<img width="272" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2612529f-9570-4569-9e8d-fd7bb42febe7" />

The other build error took a bit too, you had `:: moniker-end`, only two `:`, and 3 required. I've never made that mistake - every, because I'm dyslexic and can't type. I copy/paste.

Reviewer: @tdykstra @guardrex strange you can't have comments after a row that include a pipe `|` - even in a comment, even `code fenced`

Author: Oh @Rick-Anderson ... so sorry! I think I force-pushed and erased some of your changes by accident. I should have been more careful. I will try to recover.

Author: Okay ... I think I restored your version. I will be more careful from now on.

Reviewer: > Oh @Rick-Anderson ... so sorry! I think I force-pushed and erased some of your changes by accident. I should have been more careful. I will try to recover.

I should have made clear I pushed some commit, sorry. I thought you were finished.

When the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.NumberHandling> property is set to `JsonNumberHandling.AllowReadingFromString`, the numeric types are mapped as follows:

| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ |
| int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` |
| long           | [integer,string] | int64            | pattern `<digits>` |
| short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |
| byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |
| float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |

| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               | 
| -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ | 

> | int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` |  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)$"`
> | long           | [integer,string] | int64            | pattern `<digits>` |                                 
> | short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
> | byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
> | float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?(?:[eE][+-]?\\d+)?$"`
> | double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |                                  
> | decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?$"`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` | <!-- pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)$"` -->
| long           | [integer,string] | int64            | pattern `<digits>` |                                 
| short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
| byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
| float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` | <!--  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?(?:[eE][+-]?\\d+)?$"` -->
| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |                                  
| decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` | <!--  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?$"` -->
```

> | int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` | <!-- pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)$"` -->
> | long           | [integer,string] | int64            | pattern `<digits>` |                                 
> | short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
> | byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
> | float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` | <!--  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?(?:[eE][+-]?\\d+)?$"` -->
> | double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |                                  
> | decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` | <!--  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?$"` -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!--
| int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` |  pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)$"`
| long           | [integer,string] | int64            | pattern `<digits>` |                                 
| short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
| byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |                                  
| float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |   pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?(?:[eE][+-]?\\d+)?$"`
| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |                                  
| decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |   pattern: `"^-?(?:0|[1-9]\\d*)(?:\\.\\d+)?$"`
 -->
```

used in the app. In ASP.NET Core Web API apps, the default value of this property is `JsonNumberHandling.AllowReadingFromString`.

When the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.NumberHandling> property is set to `JsonNumberHandling.AllowReadingFromString`, the numeric types are mapped as follows:

| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ |
| int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` |
| long           | [integer,string] | int64            | pattern `<digits>` |
| short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |
| byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |
| float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |

> <!-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!--
```

<xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.NumberHandling> property of the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions>
used in the app. In ASP.NET Core Web API apps, the default value of this property is `JsonNumberHandling.AllowReadingFromString`.

When the <xref:System.Text.Json.JsonSerializerOptions.NumberHandling> property is set to `JsonNumberHandling.AllowReadingFromString`, the numeric types are mapped as follows:

| C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               |
| -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ |
| int            | [integer,string] | int32            | pattern `<digits>` |
| long           | [integer,string] | int64            | pattern `<digits>` |
| short          | [integer,string] | int16            | pattern `<digits>` |
| byte           | [integer,string] | uint8            | pattern `<digits>` |
| float          | [number,string]  | float            | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| double         | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |
| decimal        | [number,string]  | double           | pattern `<digits with decimal >` |

> 
> 
> 
> | C# Type        | OpenAPI `type`   | OpenAPI `format` | Other assertions               | 
> | -------------- | ---------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------ | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### nullable

:::moniker range="< aspnetcore-10.0"

Properties defined as a nullable value or reference type have `nullable: true` in the generated schema. This is consistent with the default behavior of the <xref:System.Text.Json> deserializer, which accepts `null` as a valid value for a nullable property.

:::moniker-end
:::moniker range=">= aspnetcore-10.0"

Properties defined as a nullable value or reference type appear in the generated schema with a `type` keyword whose value is an array that includes `null` as one of the types. This is consistent with the default behavior of the <xref:System.Text.Json> deserializer, which accepts `null` as a valid value for a nullable property.

For example, a C# property defined as `string?` is represented in the generated schema as:

```json
  "nullableString": {
    "description": "A property defined as string?",
    "type": [
      "null",
      "string"
    ]
  },
```

If the app is configured to produce OpenAPI v3.0 or OpenAPI v2 documents, nullable value or reference types have `nullable: true` in the generated schema because these OpenAPI versions do not allow the `type` field to be an array.

> ::moniker-end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::moniker-end
```
